
The aim of this research is to find the density of the tumor cells with the use of histopathological images of a tissue to determine the type, and stage of the breast cancer. This information can be used by the pathologists or doctors to measure how the cells look and how fast they're growing compared to normal cells. It will also tell them how likely the cancer is to spread to other parts of the body. Doctors will try to figure out if it has spread, and if so, how far. This process is called staging. The stage of a cancer describes how much cancer is in the body. It helps determine how serious the cancer is and how best to treat it. In addition to that, the type and the stage information will be processed in the TNM system. T describes the size of the tumor and any spread of cancer into nearby tissue; N describes spread of cancer to nearby lymph nodes; and M describes metastasis (spread of cancer to other parts of the body). The Tumor, Node, Metastasis (TNM) staging system for breast cancer is an internationally accepted system used to determine the disease stage. This disease stage is used to determine prognosis and guide management. At present, Mammography is the most common method of breast imaging. It uses low-dose amplitude-X-rays to examine the human breast. Cancerous masses and calcium deposits appear brighter on the mammogram. This method is good for detecting Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS) and calcifications. Artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) algorithms for interpreting mammograms have the potential to improve the effectiveness of population breast cancer screening programmes if they can detect cancers, including interval cancers, without contributing substantially to overdiagnosis. Recently, medical professionals have expanded the use of AI capabilities in cancer detection. At Tulane University, researchers discovered that AI can accurately detect and diagnose colorectal cancer by analysing tissue scans as well or better than pathologists. Particularly, deep neural network is achieving excellent result in various computer vision tasks, such as image classification (Hongbin., 2020), regression, object detection (Zhongqiu, 2019), and image segmentation (Guotai, 2017). Convolutional neural networks have an ability in analysing and learning patterns from the image data. Due to the intrinsic difficulties associated with an image, with meagre contrast, noise, and lack of appreciation by the eye, instruments have been prepared to make and improve image processing. Artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and convolutional neural network (CNN) are the quickest rising areas of healthcare industry. AI and ML are found in the research arena that deals with and improves technological systems to resolve complex tasks through reducing necessity of human intelligence. A convolution neural network has also been used in order to classify breast cancer histology images in order to provide early detection of breast cancer at low cost and high accuracy. A feed forward neural network can also be devised to statistically diagnose breast cancer with a very high accuracy. In this research, a pretrained AI model will be used which is known as Resnet. A residual neural network (ResNet) is an artificial neural network (ANN). It is a gateless or open-gated variant of the HighwayNet, the first working very deep feedforward neural network with hundreds of layers, much deeper than previous neural networks. The method proposed in this research is to boost the automatic identification of breast tumor density by analysing the histopathological image of a specific tissue zones in normalised images with the use of deep neural networks. The system proposed has already been achieved a great accuracy in prediction of tumor density where the loss remains at 15% with a minimal validation data.
Future research:

